SOURCE URL: https://www.ircc.iitb.ac.in/IRCC-Webpage/rnd/IITB_IP_Policy2012.jsp
================================================================================

Intellectual Policy of IIT Bombay
File Last modified on: Wed Nov 18, 2020 22:50:14
Revised Intellectual  Property (IP) Policy of IIT Bombay 2012
As approved by IIT Bombay Board of Governors in the 215
th
Meeting held on 14 June, 2012
Click here to download pdf version
Part A: Preamble
Institute of Technology Bombay (hereafter referred to as  IITB or Institute) is an educational and research institution of national  importance with a vision "to be the  fountainhead of new ideas and of innovators in technology and science" a  mission "to create an ambience in which  new ideas, research and scholarship flourish and from which the leaders and  innovators of tomorrow emerge".
The first Intellectual Property  (IP) policy for the Institute was established and implemented since 2003. In  the last few years, a number of new initiatives and issues have arisen, with  the enhanced growth in research and development. In view of the experience obtained during this period, in  commercialisation, incubation, international collaboration, distance education  courses and student related issues, it was decided to review the current policy  and suggest changes as appropriate. This document is the revised IP Policy for  the Institute.
IITB acknowledges the role of numerous stakeholders in the  creation of its Intellectual Property (IP), namely the government, public, researchers,  faculty, staff, postdoctoral fellows, research students, postgraduate and  graduate students, guest researchers, sponsors, technology transfer units and  the national IP offices. Being a public educational institute, interests of the  various stakeholders have been attempted to be taken care of.
IITB recognizes the importance of innovations and assists in  translating them into products, processes and services for both commercial benefits  and achieve the widest public good. The features of this IP Policy aim to meet  such needs and enable IITB to achieve its vision. IITB.s IP policy is designed  to identify, protect and leverage the bouquet of IPs that is generated from  research . patents, copyrights, design rights and trademarks amongst others, that  serve the purpose of knowledge diffusion and commercialisation. Â
The IP policy of IITB is segregated into two primary sub policies relating  to .inventions. and .expressions. associated activities at the Institute. The  main IP policy presents the generic position of IITB. The
Inventions related IP Policy
relates to patent, design, layout,  trademark, bio diversity and related rights whilst the
Expressions related IP Policy
provides direction for the Copyright  and related rights. Various forms  that explain in detail the sub processes, various situations and required  documentation will be included as part of the implementation of this policy.
Part  B: The IIT Bombay Intellectual Property  (IP) Policy
This policy is applicable to all the IITB Personnel .  students, faculty, staff, researchers and others related.
IITB personnel are entitled to  decide that the results of any research undertaken by them in the course of  their employment / engagement with the Institute shall be disseminated through publications  or disclosed as they wish in accordance with normal academic practice. However,  the concerned parties should be aware of the various Intellectual Properties  that get created in the course of their research and teaching that has potential  for increased productiveness or break through development/inventions and  creative activities as a means of effective communication and dissemination.
Under situations where a particular invention  / development come under both the sub policies, the IP Inventions Policy will  supersede. The Institute.s ability to  grant waivers to the creators from non application of the IP policy is  delegated to the Dean Research and Development (Dean R&D) at the Institute.
Ownership
: The IP policy has to be accepted  and signed by all IITB Personnel. IITB  owns all the Intellectual Property (IP) that is produced by all IITB personnel.  Refer to the detailed relevant
IP Inventions  Policy (Part C) and Expression Policy (Part D)
for exceptions. IITB reserves  the right to apply for IP protection in India / throughout the world / specific  countries for suitable protection of the IP generated.
Annexure 1
gives an explanation of what constitutes significant resources.
Disclosure
: IITB encourages timely disclosure of  all potential IP / Inventions / Innovations generated (conceived or reduced to  practice in whole or in part) by members of the faculty or staff (including  research staff, doctoral students, students and visiting scholars) of the Institute  in the course of their Institute related activities. Â IITB  identifies the relevant statutory and other mechanisms not limited to Patent,  Copyright, Trademark, Design Rights, Integrated Circuit, Plant Varieties and  rest towards registration. Disclosure enables prompt action by IITB to  appropriately protect and disseminate the research activities occurring at IITB.
Annexure 2
details the process of disclosure and protection of IITB Intellectual Property. All such disclosures are  considered to be confidential.
IP  Licensing and Agreements:
IITB understands the legitimate  commercial needs and the security required in the form of IP especially for  breakthrough technologies. IITB strives to balance this critical requirement  against the primary goal of academic and research dissemination leading to a practical  usage of the technologies being developed.
The licensing  is done by IITB through Industrial Research and Consultancy Centre (IRCC),  which handles the evaluation, marketing, negotiations and licensing of the  entire institute owned IP (Refer
Annexure 4
for details and
Annexure 5
for  information on Agreements). In certain cases, IITB might use the services of a  third party for licensing the technology developed, under mutually agreed terms  and conditions with such party, within the framework of the IITB IP Policy.
Licensing  Types
The type of license provided will  depend on the nature of the invention / innovation. IITB, being a Government of  India funded institute, encourages non exclusive licensing towards wider deployment  of innovations being developed at the Institute. Under certain exceptions, IITB  might consider exclusive licensing.
In case of  platform wide use of inventions / innovations and or where significant resources  / effort have to be invested by the licensee in using the IP, the Institute  might consider providing an application and / or region specific or a full  scale exclusive license. Due diligence, not limiting to business plan, business  model, milestones and usage plan of the IP in discussion and other relevant  information as required, would be undertaken, in order to determine the type of  licensing to be provided.
Licenses are  provided to a company and not to an individual
.
License may be limited  to that particular IP in discussion and not to its enhancements or  modifications. Licenses provided are subject to periodic review including the  working status and accessibility / availability of the IP used. Based on the review  of the licensing activities, IITB reserves the right to extend, modify or  terminate the type of existing license provided.
License  Exemptions
: In case of both the inventor(s) and  external party(ies) requesting for the license of the same IITB owned IP at the  same time, preference for licensing may be provided to the inventor(s) based on  the nature of technology amongst other considerations.
Irrespective  of the license provided, IITB retains the right for research exemption and  experimental use for patents, design rights and under fair use of copyrights  and trademarks on an institute wide perpetual license towards it basic  objective of academics and enhancing research. This will include the right to  publish, use of technical data, the method, product and related services that  has resulted from earlier research which has been licensed for the activities  mentioned earlier.
In the  case of inventions by its faculty / students / research scholars / other IITB  Personnel under lien / sabbatical / visit / internship, IITB exercises the  right to the access of such IP created for the sole purpose of academic work and  research under research exemption and fair use, being conducted within its  jurisdiction. The stakeholders are encouraged to disclose the invention through  appropriate invention disclosure form (IDF) of such developments during their  external stay.
Technology  License / Transfer Options
: IITB recognises the inventor(s) / creator(s)  as a key component for successful commercialisation process. IITB shall use the  following options to utilise the IP generated. Licensing may be made either  directly to third parties or through incubation or through licensing agents. It  is to be noted that the IP generated would preferably be licensed and not  assigned. IITB reserves its  march-in rights in the case of assigned IP.Â   Any licensing done by IITB will be on an as is where is basis.
Technology licensing: This would be as per the  current policy and revenues earned will be shared with the inventor(s) in a  70:30 ratio. The 70% due to the IITB inventor(s) will be distributed as per the  separate inventors. agreement entered into between the inventors. In the case  of multiple IITB inventors, the default inventors. royalty share is done on an  equal basis in the absence of an alternate revenue sharing agreement. Details  of royalty sharing are given in
Annexure 3.
Salient features of the licensing  includes the following:
Preferred mode is Non Exclusive licensing.  Exceptions to this will be based on the funding of the project and any other  relevant requirements.
Exclusive license will be subjected to periodic  review of license not limiting to usage status, application and / or region  specific, royalty generation for continuing such license agreement.
Incubation through Society for Innovation and  Entrepreneurship (SINE): IITB inventors and community interested to incubate  the technologies developed have an opportunity through SINE. Salient features  for SINE incubation model include the following:
Nature  of license (exclusive, non exclusive or transfer of knowhow) will be based on  the nature of the technology developed and on any prior contract governing the  IP to be licensed.
Exit time review of the earlier license provided  would determine the future mode of license.
Exclusive licensing provided after exit from SINE  will be subject to periodic review based on various measures.
For IP involving multiple inventors, a No-objection Certificate (NoC) from all the inventors  concerned is a necessity for an exclusive license to be considered. In the  absence of NoCs from all concerned, a non exclusive license ONLY will be  provided to the requester(s).
Licensing  through agents: In some cases, IITB might utilise the services of third party  licensing agents and mechanisms for effective deployment of the technology  developed. Salient features for third party licensing agents include the  following:
The nature  of the licensing would be generally non exclusive.
Exclusive  licensing will be subject to periodic review based on various measures.
For an IP which has not been licensed to any party, the  creator(s) may also contact potential licensee(s) on their own initiative,  maintaining confidentiality and taking all necessary care so as not to affect  the value of the IP, through appropriate agreements such as Non Disclosure  Agreement (NDA) with the potential licensee(s) during technology marketing  discussions.
If IITB has not been able to commercialize the creative work  in a reasonable time frame, the creator(s) may approach the Dean R&D for  the assignment of rights of the invention(s) to them.
Infringements,  Damages, Liability and Indemnity Insurance:
IITB shall, in any contract between the licensee and IITB,  seek indemnity from any legal proceedings including without limitation  manufacturing defects, production problems, design guarantee, upgrades, debug  obligations and the content created. The policy also supports the need to indemnify  IITB personnel built into the license agreements for sponsored research and  consultative work. IITB shall retain the right to engage in any litigation  concerning its IP and license infringements.
Conflict of Interest
: The inventor(s) are required to disclose potential conflict  of interest while undertaking any IP related activity. If the inventor(s)  and/or their immediate family have a stake in a licensee or potential licensee  company then they are required to disclose the stake they and / or their  immediate family have in the company. An IITB  license to a company in which the inventors also have a stake and management  role shall be subject to the approval of the Dean R&D taking the above consideration  into fact. All IITB  Personnel shall be bound by the conflict of interest related policy / guidelines  of IITB as applicable from time to time.
Dispute  Resolution
: In case of any disputes between IITB and the inventors /  creators regarding the implementation of the IP policy, the aggrieved party may  appeal to the Director of IITB. Efforts shall be made to address the concerns  of the aggrieved party through the appointment of a committee of experts and  the verdict of the Director is final.
Jurisdiction:
All agreements to be signed by IITB  will have the jurisdiction of the court in Mumbai and shall be governed by  appropriate laws of India.
--- End of IP  Policy ---
Part  C: The Inventions related IP Policy
Applicability  & Requirements
: This policy is applicable to all IITB  personnel as defined in the overall IP policy and their range of activities such  as, but not limited to, teaching, research, distance education and modules,  continuing education programme, consultancy, sponsored work, collaborative  research (internal and external) and the range of inventions includes patentable  subject matter, trade mark / service mark, geographical indicators, design registrations,  integrated circuits layout, plant varieties, materials transfer and other related  necessary Confidential Information.
Evaluation of academic work associated with IP creation will  be subject to Institute norms as applicable from time to time. Any agreement  with an external agency, which requires delay in public disclosure for the  purpose of IP protection, should usually not have effect for longer than three  months from the time of notification by IITB to the said agency.
The applicability of the IP policy  will be covered through appropriate forms to be filled by the Institute  personnel.
Relevant  inventions and Ownership
: Under this policy, title to such  inventions including software where applicable, designs and integrated circuit  layouts and patentable subject matter that are created in IITB with the use of  significant IITB resources are assigned to and owned by IITB, regardless of the  source of funding, if any.
All  inventors / creators are required to ensure that an .inventors. agreement. Â is filled at the time of submission of an  invention disclosure to IITB. This agreement would among other aspects, include  ratio of sharing any revenue received from commercialisation of the said  technology amongst the IITB inventors / creators. Absence of such an agreement  will be considered as equal sharing amongst the IITB inventors / creators.
Ownership  exemption
: The possibility of exemption to  ownership is given in the following cases and IITB reserves the right to revise  these exemptions on a case to case basis.
If the inventor / creator is not related with IITB.
If the inventor / creator has not used significant  resources of IITB. The inventor(s) / creator(s) are to submit the lack of using  significant resources (as described in
Annexure 1
) for exemption purposes.
If IITB is not interested to take forward the  disclosed invention / creation towards IP protection or through prior specific  agreement.
In case of  IITB not protecting an IP, the inventor(s) / creator(s) are provided with the permission  to protect the same in countries of their choice.
External  Funded / Collaborative Development
: For the relevant invention(s)  including software, designs and integrated circuit layouts, produced during the  course of a sponsored and / or collaborative activity (internal / external),  specific provisions related to IP made in contracts governing the collaborative  activities are to be referred along with this policy. Cases where confidential  data and results are to be used by the Institute for its academic and research  work, exclusive access to the relevant project members have to be provided.  Relevant faculty, students and researchers who would contribute in such  projects are to be duly notified of potential delay in approval for  publication, academic and research related activities before accepting such  project proposals. Based on such agreements as signed by IITB, the following  scenarios are envisaged:
IITB is the sole owner of the IP generated from the funding  provided.
The IP generated is owned jointly with the  collaborative partner having the first rights of refusal towards  commercialisation.
In the case of a collaborative / multiple consortium  based IP generation, the IP terms of such agreement is to be considered along  with the policy. In the absence of any specific IP agreement in such cases, IITB  follows its IP policy.
IITB can assign the IP generated, to the funding  agency based on the nature of the technology, funding and specific applications.
Under all  circumstances, IITB always reserves the right to use the IP generated for its  academic and research purposes.
Design  Rights
: The design right for a created  component (physical or graphic, any dimension) follows the IP inventions policy  as indicated in this section.
Trade  Mark(s) / Service Mark(s)
: The logo of IITB would be the  trademark of the Institute. It is to be noted that the logo of IITB cannot be  used on any of the private communication of any of the IITB personnel. Official  activities that are part of the officially recognised bodies of IITB, web pages  hosted on the IITB domain, project websites and reports in which IITB is a project  member, student thesis are allowed by default to have the IITB logo.
The usage of the IITB logo, IITB name in full or  partial for all other activities has to get the due approval of IITB.
Material  Transfer Agreements (MTAs)
: This agreement is of relevance to activity  which requires a physical material access for research. IITB follows a material  transfer agreement aligned with its academic and research needs. The MTA is used for both IITB to provide a material  (typically biological) to any other external party and also to request any  material from external agency.
Such  agreements are to be finalised in consultation with IRCC, IITB for all  materials transferred to and from external agencies.
---End of Inventions related IP Policy--
Part D: The Expressions related  IP Policy
Applicability  & Requirements
: This policy is applicable to all IITB  personnel as defined in the overall IP policy and their range of activities during  their engagement with IITB such as, but not limited to, teaching, research,  distance education, continuing education, consultancy, sponsored work,  collaborative activity (internal and external), Institute designated or  sponsored work (academic, cultural) and the range of creations includes copyrightable  works and related necessary confidential information.
This sub policy is limited to the  .literal. component of any deliverable and patentable / .inventions.- related  content will be under the purview of the IP inventions policy. As an example,  thesis under the copyright policy of IIT Bombay refers only to the literary  work of the thesis.Â
Evaluation of academic work associated with IP creation will  be subject to Institute norms as applicable from time to time. Any agreement  with an external agency, which requires delay in public disclosure for the  purpose of IP protection, should usually not have effect for longer than three  months from the time of notification by IITB to the said agency.
Relevant  creations and ownership
: Title to such creations including literary  works, software, music, cinematography, sound and other rights covered under  the Copyright Act of India, 1956 and amendments thereof, where applicable, that  are created in IITB with the use of significant IITB resources under this  policy are assigned to and owned by IITB.
IITB is the owner to the  administrative and other documents created as part of designated work. Examples  include course outline documents, question papers, answer sheets, grade ranking  sheet, and other such creations. All the creations are required to ensure that  the .inventors. agreement. is filled at the time of submission to IITB. This  agreement would among other aspects, include ratio of sharing of any revenue  received from commercialisation of the said creation. Absence of such an  agreement will be considered as equal sharing amongst the creators.
Ownership  exemptions
: Exemption to ownership is given in  the following cases and IITB reserves the right to revise these exemptions on a  case to case basis. Copyright being present by default on any material being  created, the policy provides the following ownership exemptions to the various  creations that occur as part of IITB personnel.s activities. The copyright  ownership is treated separately for the various creations identified.
Teaching  / Course material
IITB acknowledges that the author is the owner of  teaching materials created for teaching purposes during author.s engagement  with / stay at IITB.
As most of the course content is created  cumulatively and in order to enable a wider usage and distribution of the  teaching materials created, IITB by default gets a license to the copyright and  all other rights of the content created by the creator for fair dealing under academic  and research context.
IITB is not liable for any of the copyright violations  by its personnel for the content created. The author is expected to carry out due  diligence in the course of content creation.
Continuing  Engineering Programme (CEP) Courses
CEP course materials and academic course materials  have different copyright clearances.
The content and the materials created will be owned  by the course creator. Note that that the course creator, course instructor and  course coordinator could be the same individual or independent.
The course creator is expected to get the relevant  copyright clearances for the course materials used.
IITB owns the course structure, course outline and  promotional materials created for any of the CEP courses for any application or  use.
IITB is not liable for any of the copyright  violations by its personnel for the content created. The author is expected to  carry out due diligence in the course of content creation.
Quality  Improvement Programme (QIP) Courses
Copyright of QIP course materials will be governed  by the rules of the QIP scheme. In absence of any specific guidelines in this  regard, the CEP policy will be applicable.
Centre  for Distance Engineering Education Programme (CDEEP) Courses
CDEEP is a platform for outreach services. This  policy applies to IITB academic courses offered in this outreach mode. Â
Other courses offered in this mode will be governed  by specific agreements on a case to case basis.
The cinematography and sound recording of the course  presented through CDEEP will be owned by IITB. Any revenue generated from  commercialisation of such adaptations will be shared with the creators as per  IITB policy as applicable from time to time.
All other course materials (such as slides, notes and  software where required and integral part of the course) will be owned by the creator.
IITB gets a fair dealing to the complete course  content created to be used for academic and research purposes.
IITB is not liable for any of the copyright  violations by its personnel for the content created. The author is expected to  carry out due diligence in the course of content creation.
Thesis
The student is the original creator of the thesis,  fine tuned with relevant contribution of the supervisor(s) and the copyright  authorship rests with the student creator.
The ownership is jointly held by the student creator  and the supervisor(s) concerned. The supervisor(s) can waive off their joint  ownership if desired. Relevant forms will be made available for such waivers.
The supervisor(s) is required to sign off at the  time of the thesis submission, indicating the commercial / potential commercial  / no commercial value of the work concerned.
IITB reserves the right to identify potential IP  generated through the submitted thesis and protect such identified IP before  displaying the thesis in public domain. IITB gets a non exclusive, non-commercial  license for the display and use of the thesis for academic and research  purposes.
In the case of a thesis resulting from external  funding, the joint ownership of the thesis extends to the external supervisor(s).  Pending any specific agreement, the IP and Copyright policy of IIT Bombay will  be applicable by default in such cases.
Both the student and the faculty supervisor(s), where  applicable, have the right to first refusal for any further adaptations and  other derivative work that is intended to be done by either of the parties. They  are given three month.s time from the day the official request submitted, to  exercise their right to refusal. The official request should include at the minimum  the adaptations identified.
Failure to respond within the time duration of three  months will be deemed to be an acceptance of the proposal presented. Either  party can approach IITB towards the resolution. The Director of IITB authorises  the formation of a panel under the Dean R&D for a resolution process.
Irrespective of any agreement, IITB reserves the  right to use the thesis for educational and research requirements. IITB may not  prefer the use of NDA for its thesis evaluation.
IITB gets an automatic right to display the thesis in  soft and hard forms.
Books,  articles and related literary works
: IITB encourages its personnel to  spread knowledge and books, technical articles etc. are ways in which this  vision can be achieved. In this respect, IITB does not claim ownership of  copyright on books authored by IITB personnel. In cases where the books are  related to the multiple research groups / faculty teaching the course in the Institute,  it is expected that the interested author shall get the relevant no objection  certificate from co-authors / other contributors.
Use of IITB logo on any personal  publications by the faculty / staff / student is prohibited. In cases of Institute  designated works and other works like the content development programme, the  ownership rests with IITB.
Students who wish to publish their  thesis, prior to submission for an academic degree, as a book or any other type  of publication are required to seek a prior written approval from IITB.
--- End of Expressions related IP Policy----
Part E: Annexure
Annexure 1 . Defining parties concerned and significant usage
In addition to faculty and staff  (including project staff), the provisions of the Institute's IP policy will  extend to all students, research scholars and postdoctoral fellows,  non-employees who participate or intend to participate in research projects at  IITB (including visiting faculty, industry personnel, visiting students, fellows,  etc.) either in a direct or indirect relationship with IITB or through any related  activity.
Use of library facilities,  internet connectivity, and occasional use of office equipment and office staff  will not be considered "significant use" of Institute facilities and  equipment. In addition, the following are accepted as no significant usage of Institute  resources:
The inventor does not use any Institute provided  funds or Institute administered funds in connection with the activity resulting  in generation of IP.
Prior disclosure by the inventors of any  intellectual property that closely resembles a specific research project at the  Institute, together with an explanation that such intellectual property did not  arise through use of Institute resources.
The Institute requires the  individual to provide supporting documentation towards the claim of no  significant use of the Institute resources and reserves the right to grant  appropriate waivers. It is to be noted that in the event of further development  or modifications to an earlier individual work by making significant use of  IITB facilities, resources and related funding, IITB may assert further rights  in accordance with its IP policies.
Access to facilities for external  registered students is limited to their related research and is bound by the IP  policy of IITB.
Annexure 2 . Disclosure, Assessment and Protection
For all invention(s) produced at  IITB, the inventor(s) are required to disclose the creative work to the IRCC at  the earliest date using an Invention  Disclosure form (IDF) of the Institute.
Disclosure is a critical part of  the IP protection process and it formally documents claims of inventorship, the  date of the invention and other details of the invention. The inventor(s) shall  assign the rights of the disclosed invention to IITB.
For sponsored and/or collaborative  activity, the provisions of the contract pertaining to disclosure of creative  work are applicable.
All IITB personnel and non-IITB  personnel associated with any activity of IITB shall treat all IP related  information which has been disclosed to the IRCC and / or whose rights are  assigned to IITB, or whose rights rest with IITB personnel, as confidential.  Such confidentiality shall be maintained till the date as demanded by the  relevant contract, if any, between the concerned parties unless such knowledge  is in the public domain or is generally available to the public.
In order to expedite and complete  the procedural and legal formalities of IP protection, all inventors / creators  of IITB are required to sign such identified documents and provide assistance  to empower and enable IITB to complete these statutory requirements within  stipulated time.
Assessment  of Inventions / Innovations for protection
The Institute shall assess the patentability of the  invention and make one of the following recommendations:
IITB shall take the responsibility of protection of the IP,  in which case, IITB will initiate appropriate processes.
In the event of IITB not taking up the responsibility of  protection of the IP, the inventor / creator(s) may then choose to protect the IP  on their own. However the ownership rights shall remain with IITB. In such  cases, the cost and revenue sharing will be governed by a separate agreement  between IITB and the inventor / creator(s).
Filings of IP Applications in foreign countries: Within a  reasonable period of filing the complete IP application in India, IITB shall,  based on available information decide on the suitability of protection of the  invention in foreign countries.
If IITB opts not to undertake such protection in any  specific country requested by the inventor(s), the creator(s) may then choose  to protect the creative work on their own. However the ownership rights shall  remain with IITB. In such cases, the cost and revenue sharing will be governed  by a separate agreement between IITB and the inventor / creator(s).
Renewal of IP Rights: A decision  on the annual renewal of IP rights will be taken by the Institute. If IITB  decides not to renew the IPR in any country, then it may assign the rights of  the IP in that country to the creator(s) based on a request to that effect from  the creator(s) and an internal review. In all cases where IP rights in any  specific country have been reassigned to the inventor(s), IITB shall not claim  any share of proceeds earned through that IP in that country excepting for the  costs already incurred by IITB.
Annexure  3 . Revenue Sharing
Net earnings from the commercialisation  of IP owned by IITB would be shared as follows:
The inventor (s) / creator(s) share would be  declared annually (or as revenues are received) and disbursement will be made  to the inventor (s) / creator(s), their legal heir, whether or not the inventor  (s) / creators are associated with IITB at the time of disbursement.
The revenue sharing ratio between  the inventor team and IITB will be a fixed 70:30 in favour of the inventor team.  IP protection costs will be part of the license revenue sharing agreement  between IITB and inventor(s).
Where applicable and when IITB       reassigns the rights of the IP to its creator(s) for any country, the cost       and revenue sharing will be governed by a separate agreement between IITB       and the inventor / creator(s).
The inventors may at any time       by mutual consent revise the distribution of IP earnings agreement.
Annexure 4 .  Role of
Industrial Research and Consultancy  Centre
IRCC at IIT  Bombay provides guidance, support and resources to all IITB personnel and  facilitates protection and deployment of intellectual property. In achieving  this goal, IRCC creates awareness about the importance and role of IP Rights,  implements the IP policy, ensures transparency and fairness of implementation  processes, solicits feedback regarding the fulfilment of the IP policy and  periodically reviews the Policy to improve upon any shortcomings, strengthens  the infrastructure and resources for protection and exploitation of IP and  makes available expert inputs.
Issues of ownership, confidentiality, disclosure,  patentability, technology transfer, revenue sharing, and conflict of interest  among others play a very important role in any IP management and workshops /  meetings are conducted by the Institute to enhance awareness on related issues.  IRCC also provides templates and guidelines for the contracts, agreements and  MOUs governing the effective exploitation of the IP produced by IITB. All such  agreements and matters relating to confidentiality, infringements, damages,  liabilities and compliance are administered by IRCC.
Annexure 5 .  Contracts and Agreements
All agreements including but not limited to the following  categories, for activities undertaken by any IITB personnel need to be approved  by IITB.
Confidentiality  Agreement / Non-disclosure Agreement
Consultation  Agreement
Evaluation  Agreement
Research  and Development Agreement (R&DA / MOU)
License  Agreement
Technology  Transfer Agreement
Alternative  Dispute Resolution Agreement
Collaborative  MOU with University / Organisation
Dean R&D acts as the final signing authority in all  categories of agreements listed above. IRCC facilitates the process of framing  such agreements by way of providing templates and services through professional  consultants.