SOURCE URL: https://sih.gov.in/
================================================================================

﻿
Smart India Hackathon
Click here to download the Updated Evaluator and College SPOC certificates
|
Click here to view winners of SIH 2025 Grand Finale
Winners of SIH Grand Finale 2024
View
Nodal Center List for SIH 2024
View
Login for SIH Grand Finale 2024
SIH Login/Register
WHAT IS SIH?
Smart India Hackathon (SIH) is a premier nationwide initiative designed to engage students in solving some of the most pressing challenges faced in 
                       everyday life. Launched to foster a culture of innovation and practical problem-solving, SIH provides a dynamic platform for students to develop and 
                       showcase their creative solutions to real-world problems. By encouraging participants to think critically and innovatively, the hackathon aims to 
                       bridge the gap between academic knowledge and practical application.
Since its inception, SIH has garnered significant success in promoting out-of-the-box thinking among young minds, particularly engineering students 
                        from across India. Each edition has built on the previous one, refining its approach and expanding its impact. The hackathon not only offers students
                         an opportunity to showcase their skills but also encourages collaboration with industry experts, government agencies, and other stakeholders.
overview
Smart India Hackathon is a nationwide initiative to provide students a platform to solve some of the pressing problems we face in our daily lives, and thus inculcate a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem solving.
who can participate?
SIH Senior
HEI's Students
Shri Narendra Modi
Hon'ble Prime Minister of India
Why join SIH 2024?
Innovative Solutions
Get innovative solutions to your problems in cost effective ways Opportunity to be a part of Nation Building Opportunity to brand your company.
Recognition and visibility
Nationally Recognition and visibility for your company across all premier institutions in India
Out-of-the-box solutions
Talented youngsters from all over the country offer out-of-the-box solutions to your problems
Innovation Movement Opportunity
Be part of World’s biggest Open Innovation Movement Opportunity to work with some of the best talents in the country
Smart India Hackathon
Process Flow
SIH Software & Hardware Edition: Problem statements submission by Central &State Ministries, Departments, PSUs, Industries & NGOs
Step 1
Submission of Problem Statements (PSs) by Central & State Ministries, PSUs, Industries and NGOs on the SIH portal. Review of Submitted PSs & finalization by concerned committee Publishing finalized PSs
Step 2
Registration of College SPOCs on SIH portal Blocking published PSs by SPOCs of Colleges or Institutes Internal campus hackathon to be conducted in each college or institute by their SPOCs on their blocked PSs
Step 3
Step 4
College SPOC to be responsible to conduct internal hackathon in the campus College to finalise total best 30 teams + 5 waitlisted teams from the internal hackathon. SPOC to recommend the selected teams for Software/Hardware edition at SIH portal.
Step 5
Team leaders of the selected teams to be registered at the SIH portal to submit ideas Submission of ideas by selected teams against PSs by college SPOC for the SIH Finale Evaluation of submitted ideas
Step 6
Result Analysis and Result Publication.
THEMES
No problem is too big... No idea is too small
Smart Automation
Ideas focused on the intelligent use of resources for transforming and advancements of technology with combining the artificial intelligence to explore more various sources and get valuable insights.
Fitness & Sports
Ideas that can boost fitness activities and assist in keeping fit.
Space Technology
For use in travel or activities beyond Earth's atmosphere, for purposes such as spaceflight or space exploration.
Heritage & Culture
Ideas that showcase the rich cultural heritage and traditions of India.
MedTech/BioTech/ HealthTech
Cutting-edge technology in these sectors continues to be in demand. Recent shifts in healthcare trends, growing populations also present an array of opportunities for innovation.
Agriculture, FoodTech & Rural Development
Developing solutions, keeping in mind the need to enhance the primary sector of India - Agriculture and to manage and process our agriculture produce.
Smart Vehicles
Creating intelligent devices to improve commutation sector.
Transportation & Logistics
Submit your ideas to address the growing pressures on the city’s resources, transport networks, and logistic infrastructure.
Robotics and Drones
There is a need to design drones and robots that can solve some of the pressing challenges of India such as handling medical emergencies, search and rescue operations, etc.
Clean & Green Technology
Solutions could be in the form of waste segregation, disposal, and improve sanitization system.
Tourism
A solution/idea that can boost the current situation of the tourism industries including hotels, travel and others.
Renewable/ sustainable Energy
Innovative ideas that help manage and generate renewable /sustainable sources more efficiently.
Blockchain & Cybersecurity
Provide ideas in a decentralized and distributed ledger technology used to store digital information that powers cryptocurrencies and NFTs and can radically change multiple sectors.
Smart Education
Smart education,a concept that describes learning in digital age. It enables learners to learn more effectively, efficiently, flexibly and comfortably.
Disaster Management
Disaster management includes ideas related to risk mitigation, Planning and management before, after or during a disaster.
Games & Toys
Challenge your creative mind to conceptualize and develop unique toys and games based on our civilization, history, and culture etc.
Miscellaneous
Technology ideas in tertiary sectors like Hospitality, Entertainment and Retail.
Fintech
Challenges related to the financial services.
SIH process flow and Timeline
Why SIH is important for Government department and Corporate department
Innovative Solutions
Get innovative solutions to your problems in cost effective ways Opportunity to be a part of Nation Building Opportunity to brand your company.
Recognition and visibility
Nationally Recognition and visibility for your company across all premier institutions in India
Out-of-the-box solutions
Talented youngsters from all over the country offer out-of-the-box solutions to your problems
Innovation Movement Opportunity
Be part of World’s biggest Open Innovation Movement Opportunity to work with some of the best talents in the country
SIH Milestones
13,91,884
Participating Students
12800+
SIH Alumni Network
6497
Participating Institutes
2877
Total Problem Statements
133
Startups Details Submitted
Organizing Committee
Executive Committee
Patron
Shri Narendra Modi
Hon'ble Prime Minister of India
Shri Dharmendra Pradhan
Hon'ble Minister of Education
Co-Patrons
Dr. Sukanta Majumdar
Hon'ble Minister of State for Education
Jayant Chaudhary
Hon'ble Minister of State for Education
Shri Vineet Joshi
Hon'ble Secretary, Higher Education
Dr. Abhay Jere
CIO,MIC & VCM,AICTE
Prof. Rajive Kumar
Member Secretary, AICTE
Gaurav Singh
Director, MoE
Sh. Yogesh Brahmankar
Innovation Director, MIC
Pratap Sanap
Head of Research & Innovation,Neilsoft
Prof. Puneet Sharma
Anchor- Doordarshan, Media Adviser
Sh. Pradeep Dhage
Assistant Innovation Director
Ankush Sharma
Innovation Officer, MIC-AICTE
Sarim Moin
Innovation Officer, MIC-AICTE
Sourabh Nirmale
Regional Consultant , MIC-AICTE
Organisers
Participating Central ministries and
Departments
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
Department of Atomic Energy
Department of Biotechnology
Department of Chemical and Petrochemical
Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce & Industry
Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence
Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment
Department of Food and Public Distribution, Ministry of Consumer affairs, food and public distribution
Department of Post, Ministry of State(IC) of Communications
Department of Rural development
Department of SciTech
Department of Space (ISRO)
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
Department of Atomic Energy
Department of Biotechnology
Department of Telecommunications. Ministry of Communication
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade
DoNER
GAIL
ICMR
Indian Oil
ISRO
AICTE
ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare
Ministry of AYUSH
Ministry of Civil Aviation
Ministry of Coal
Central Ground Water Board, Ministry of Jal Shakti
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Department of Chemical and Petrochemical
Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce & Industry
Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence
Ministry of Culture
Ministry of Earth Sciences
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology(MeitY)
Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change
Ministry of External Affairs
Ministry of food processing
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
Ministry of HRD
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
Ministry of Labour
Ministry of Power
Ministry of Railways
NCPCR
NALCO
Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment
Department of Food and Public Distribution, Ministry of Consumer affairs, food and public distribution
Department of Post, Ministry of State(IC) of Communications
Ministry of Road Transport and Highways
Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation
Ministry of steel
National jute board,Ministry of Textiles
Ministry of tourism
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Ministry of Urban development
Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation
Ministry of Women and Child Development
Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises
Department of Rural development
Department of SciTech
Department of Space (ISRO)
Dte of IT & Cyber Security, DRDO
UGC
Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports
Department of Financial Services
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
National Mission for Clean Ganga, DoWR, RD & GR, Ministry of Jal Shakti
BHARAT ELECTRONICS LIMITED
Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd.
Bureau of police research and development
Central Warehousing Corporation
Central Water Commission, Ministry of Jal Shakti
CBSE
Airports Authority of india
View More
Participating state ministries and
Departments
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Government of Arunachal Pradesh
Government of Assam
Government of Chandigarh
Government of Chhattisgarh
Government of Delhi
Government of Goa
Government of Gujarat
Government of Kerala
Government of Maharashtra
Government of Pondicherry
Government of Punjab
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Government of Arunachal Pradesh
Government of Assam
Government of Rajasthan
Government of Sikkim
Government of Tamil Nadu
Government of Telangana
Government of Chandigarh
Government of Chhattisgarh
Government of Delhi
Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Government of Bihar(DOA)
Education department-Gujarat
Government of Goa
Government of Gujarat
Government of Kerala
Government of madhya pradesh
Department of Information Technology and Bio Technology, Government of Karnataka
Andhra Pradesh Innovation Society, ITE&C Department
Government of Maharashtra
Government of Pondicherry
Government of Punjab
Gov of Uttarakhand
Directorate of Technical Education Chandigarh
Nagar Nigam Jaipur, Govt. of Rajasthan
View More
Participating industries and
Organizations
ABB GIS Pvt Ltd
Adani Group
AGR Knowledge Services
Amadeus
ANIK
Apollo Hospitals
ARAI
Aurbindo Pharma
Axiscades
Bajaj Electricals Limited
BEML
Adani Port and SEZ Ltd
Bharat Forge Ltd.
Bridgestone
CDK
CISCO
Cognizant
ABB GIS Pvt Ltd
Adani Group
AGR Knowledge Services
Amadeus
ANIK
Cyient
Dalmia Cement
deAsra
DELL EMC
Dr Reddy's
Emcure
Ericsson
Everest
ezDI
FIS Solutions (INDIA)
Flucon
Forbes Marshall Pvt. Ltd
Future Generali
Garden Reach Shipbuilders
GE Healthcare
Goa Shipyard Ltd
GoldmanSachs
Growtech Innovations
Harman
HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
Apollo Hospitals
ARAI
Aurbindo Pharma
Axiscades
Hero Electric Vehicles
Hindustan Unilever Ltd
Hughes Systique
India Health Link Pvt Ltd
IndiaNeoDesign
Infosys
Ingersoll Rand
ITC
ITC Limited
KG Infosystem Pvt. Ltd.
Kirloskar Oil Engines
Kokuyo Camlin
Kotak Mahindra
KPIT
Mahindra Electric
Mahindra&Mahindra (FarmEq)
MAHYCO
Manipal Health Entreprise
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.
Mathworks
Bajaj Electricals Limited
BEML
Adani Port and SEZ Ltd
Bharat Forge Ltd.
Max Healthcare
Mindtree Ltd.
Mix Org
NCORD
NCR
P.D Hinduja Hospital
PayTM
Pepperfry
Plezmo
PRAJ
Quick Heal
RCF
Robert Bosch Engineering & Business Solutions Private Limited
Samsung R & D
SARA SAE PVT LTD
Schneider Electric
Shantha - Sanofi
Shantha Biotechnics Pvt. Ltd
SKF India Ltd
SkipperSeil Ltd.
Bridgestone
CDK
CISCO
Cognizant
SSEPL Skills Pvt. Ltd
Sun Pharmaceuticals
Tata Motors
Tata Steel Processing And Distribution Ltd
Thermax
Thermo Fisher
TVS Motors
Vanderlande
VMware Software Services
Yamaha Motor Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.
Amazon web services
Gnarus Solutions
Autodesk
Dr. B R Ambedkar Institute of Technology
Great Learning
Bajaj Fin Serv
TCI
Tripura Institute of Technology
Kisan Forum Pvt. Ltd.
View More
Policy and process
Download
Select Registration Type
×
College Faculty SPOC
School Faculty SPOC
College Faculty SPOC
Existing Users
New Users
(*Please check your mail for OTP Verification)
Design Mentors
Close